# AMPSeek
Anti-microbial property, protein structure and toxicity detection from peptide sequences

## Introduction
### Background  
Microbes developing resistace to the current drugs, Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) has become a global threat, even one of the biggest of public health and development problems, according to World Health Organization [[1](#references)]. In 2019, almost 5 million deaths related to bacterial AMR worldwide were documented. [[2](#references)]. Moreover, the issue extends beyond health, significantly impacting the global economic balance as well. 
The World Bank estimates global Gross Domestic Product to decrease by 1.1% percent if AMR is still a part of our lives by 2050 [[3](#references)]. This effect is equivalent with the outcome of the Great Recession [[3](#references)]. Luckily, this is an area for proteomics and bioinformatics and scientific community tries to obtain reliable drugs instead of current ones.

One alternative drug which is helpful to AMR is Antimicrobial Peptides (AMPs), short peptide sequences, that are generated by both eukaryotic and prokaryotic organisms [[4](#references)]. AMPs are active agains different microbes like fungi, bacteria, viruses, and yiests [[4](#references)]. Their major mode of action is lysis of the target organism [[4](#references)]. They engage the cell membrane of the target organism based on their charge, hidrophobicity, and 3D structure [[5](#references)]. Since they only engage with the cell wall of the target organism, the possibility of gaining the AMR[[5](#references)]. Due to their wide effects on different target organisms and low-possibility of generating AMR, it is a valid candidate for drug research.

# 




## References
[1] World Health Organization. (2023, November 21). Antimicrobial Resistance. https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/antimicrobial-resistance

[2] Antimicrobial Resistance Collaborators (2022). Global burden of bacterial antimicrobial resistance in 2019: a systematic analysis. Lancet (London, England), 399(10325), 629–655. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(21)02724-0 

[3] World Bank Group. (2017).  Drug-Resistant Infections: A Threat to Our Economic Future. https://documents1.worldbank.org/curated/en/323311493396993758/pdf/final-report.pdf

[4] Reddy, K. V. R., Yedery, R. D., & Aranha, C. (2004). Antimicrobial peptides: Premises and promises. International Journal of Antimicrobial Agents, 24(6), 536–547. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijantimicag.2004.09.005

[5] Lei, J., Sun, L., Huang, S., Zhu, C., Li, P., He, J., Mackey, V., Coy, D. H., & He, Q. (2019). The antimicrobial peptides and their potential clinical applications. American Journal of Translational Research, 11(7), 3919–3931.

[6]